.\" Manpage for the STerm configuration file
.\" Contact flocke@shadowice.org to correct errors and typos.

.TH man 1 "11 Apr 2014" "0.1" "sterm.ini man page"

.SH NAME
sterm.ini \- STerm main configuration file

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsterm.ini\fP is the main configuration file for STerm. If not specified on the command line,
it will be searched for in \fB$HOME/.config/sterm/sterm.ini\fP or the default options will be used.

Lines beginning with a "#" character are comments. All other non-empty lines have consist of parameters
and their values in the default ini-style:

parameter=value

See \fB/usr/share/docs/sterm/sterm.ini\fP for an example configuration file.

.SH [general]

.TP
.B scrollback=<number of lines>
This specifies the number of lines to save in the scrollback buffer.
.br
\fB> 0\fP: Set a finite number of lines to save.
.br
\fB< 0\fP: Set an infinite scrollback.
.br
\fB  0\fP: Disable the scrollback completely (\fBdefault\fP).

.TP
.B allow_bold=<true or false>
This specifies whether the terminal should draw bold text (default: \fBtrue\fP).

.TP
.B audible_bell=<true or false>
Should the audible bell be enabled (default: \fBfalse\fP)?

.TP
.B scroll_on_keystroke=<true or false>
Sets whether the terminal should scroll to the bottom on a key-press (default: \fBtrue\fP).

.TP
.B scroll_on_output=<true or false>
Sets whether the terminal should scroll to the bottom on new output (default: \fBfalse\fP).

.TP
.B rewrap_on_resize=<true or false>
This specifies whether the content should be rewrapped on resize (default: \fBfalse\fP).

.TP
.B autohide_mouse=<true or false>
Should the mouse cursor hide on key-press (default: \fBfalse\fP)?

.\" .TP
.\" .B word_char_exceptions=<chars>
.\" List of ASCII punctuation characters that are not treated as part of a word (will fall back on VTEs defaults if not set).

.TP
.B enconding=<encoding>
Sets the encoding to use for the terminal (default: \fBUTF-8\fP).

.SH [cursor]

.TP
.B shape=<shape name>
Sets the shape of the cursor to display.
.br
\fBblock\fP:     Show the default block as cursor (\fBdefault\fP).
.br
\fBbeam\fP:      Show a vertical beam as cursor.
.br
\fBunderline\fP: Show an underline as cursor.

.TP
.B blink=<blink mode>
Sets the blinking mode of the cursor.
.br
\fBon\fP:     Enable the blinking of the cursor.
.br
\fBoff\fP:    Disable the blinking of the cursor.
.br
\fBsystem\fP: Use the GTK+ settings (\fBdefault\fP).

.SH [theme]

.TP
.B font=<font string>
Specifies the font to use for the terminal in the format \fBFONT SIZE\fP (default: \fBmonospace 10\fP).

.TP
.B foreground=<color string>
Sets the color to use for the foreground as HTML color code (default: \fB#a0a0a0\fP).

.TP
.B background=<color string>
Sets the color to use for the background as HTML color code (default: \fB#1b1d1e\fP).

.TP
.B colorN=<color string>
Speficies the color number N (0-15) in the color palette as HTML color code (default: \fBmolokai color theme\fP).

.SH [keys]

In this section keybindings can be defined in the following format:

.B MODIFIERS-KEY=COMMAND ARGUMENTS

The \fBMODIFIERS\fP string can be any combination of \fBShift\fP, \fBControl\fP and \fBMod1\fP or nothing at all.
.br
The \fBKEY\fP has to be a valid entry of \fBgdkkeysyms.h\fP without the prefix GDK_KEY_.
.br
See the \fBCOMMANDS\fP section in sterm(1) for a description of all possible commands and their arguments.

\fBExample\fP:
.RS
Control-Shift-underscore=zoom -2000
.RE

\fBWARNING\fP: If you use the \fBShift\fP modifier you have to use the uppercase version of \fBKEY\fP.

.SH FILES
.TP
.BI $HOME/.config/sterm/sterm.ini
User configuration file.

.TP
.BI /usr/share/doc/sterm/sterm.ini
Example configuration file.

.SH SEE ALSO
sterm(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Jakob Nixdorf <flocke@shadowice.org>
